Editorial review: Document the flex-wrap balance keyword and flex-line-count property (#44896)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/flex-wrap/index.md

flex-wrap: wrap-reverse;
```

```css interactive-example-choice

> flex-wrap: wrap balance;

Reviewer: same as wrap. no effect seen. make the items 3-across so readers can see an effect

Author: It's not the same, and the items are three across. I don't understand this comment.

Reviewer: The values appear the same: "tryit" doesn't change the look of the live rendering,

### Values

Specified as a single value from the following list or as two space-separated values when using `balance`:

- `nowrap`
  - : The flex items are laid out in a single line which may cause the flex container to overflow. This is the initial value.
- `wrap`
  - : The flex items can break into multiple lines.
- `wrap-reverse`
  - : Behaves the same as `wrap`, but with the lines laid out in reverse order.
- `balance`
  - : Specifies that flex items broken across multiple lines are distributed so that the line lengths are as similar as possible. If `balance` is specified as the only keyword, the other keyword defaults to `wrap`.

## Description

> The `flex-wrap` property is used to specify whether items laid out inside a flex container will wrap onto multiple flex lines or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `flex-wrap` property is used to specify whether items laid out inside a flex container will wrap onto multiple flex lines or not and, if set to wrap, whether the children should be evenly distributed across flex lines.
```

### Values

> Specified as a single value from the following list or as two space-separated values when using `balance`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This property is specified as a single value from the following list or as two space-separated values when using `balance`:
```

- `nowrap`
  - : The flex items are laid out in a single line which may cause the flex container to overflow. This is the initial value.
- `wrap`
  - : The flex items can break into multiple lines.
- `wrap-reverse`
  - : Behaves the same as `wrap`, but with the lines laid out in reverse order.
- `balance`
  - : Specifies that flex items broken across multiple lines are distributed so that the line lengths are as similar as possible. If `balance` is specified as the only keyword, the other keyword defaults to `wrap`.

## Description

> The `flex-wrap` property is used to specify whether items laid out inside a flex container will wrap onto multiple flex lines or not and, if set to wrap, whether the children should be evenly distributed across flex lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `flex-wrap` property is used to specify whether the flex container's child flex items may wrap onto multiple flex lines or not and, if set to wrap, whether the children should be evenly distributed across flex lines.
```

The initial value of `nowrap` specifies that all items should be laid out on a single flex line, which means they may overflow the container. The `wrap` and `wrap-reverse` keywords prevent overflow by specifying that flex items can flow, or wrap, across multiple lines.

With `wrap`, cross-start is the equivalent of [inline-start or block-start](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Flow_relative_values), depending on the {{cssxref("flex-direction")}} value and the current [writing mode](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Writing_modes). With `wrap-reverse`, cross-start is the equivalent of inline-end or block-end.

### Balancing flex item distribution

By default, when `wrap` or `wrap-reverse` is specified, each flex line is filled with flex items before items are wrapped onto the next line. This can result in an uneven distribution of items, with the last flex line composed of fewer items. If those items' {{cssxref("flex-grow")}} values are non-zero, the extra available space is distributed across these fewer items, making them much larger than the items on filled flex lines.

> The `balance` keyword, along with the {{cssxref("flex-line-count")}} property, can be used to distribute the items across lines in a more even manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `balance` keyword can be used to distribute the items across lines in a more even manner. Optionally, the {{cssxref("flex-line-count")}} property can be used to define the minimum number of lines across which the balanced items should be distributed.
```
something like that.

#### CSS

> ```css live-sample___flex-wrap-values

Reviewer: pls change   `width: 897px;` on line 158 to `100vw` and `width: 300px;` on line 166 to `width: 35vw;` since we're in here

Author: I don't want to do this. When you make these changes, the non-wrapping flex items fit nicely into one line anyway, and you don't see a horizontal scrollbar. I think the original demonstrates the effect better.

#### Results

{{ EmbedLiveSample("flex-wrap-values", "100%", "700") }}

### Demonstrating the `balance` keyword

This example demonstrates the effects of the `balance` keyword within the `flex-wrap` property and different `flex-line-count` values.

#### HTML

```html hidden live-sample___the-balance-keyword
<form>
  <div>
    <input type="checkbox" id="reverse" name="reverse" />
    <label for="reverse">Set <code>wrap-reverse</code>?</label>
  </div>
  <div>

>     <input type="checkbox" id="balance" name="balance" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <input type="checkbox" id="balance" name="balance" checked />
```

Author: updated

    <label for="balance">Set <code>balance</code>?</label>
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="line-count"><code>flex-line-count</code></label>
    <input
      type="range"
      id="line-count"
      name="line-count"
      min="1"
      max="12"
      value="3" />
    <output>3</output>
  </div>
</form>

<hr />

<p>Currently set: <code>flex-wrap: wrap; flex-line-count: 3;</code></p>

<hr />
```

We include a container {{htmlelement("div")}} with a `class` of `box`, which has ten child `<div>`s.

```html live-sample___the-balance-keyword
<div class="box">
  <div>One</div>
  <div>Two</div>
  <div>Three</div>
  <div>Four</div>
  <div>Five</div>
  <div>Six</div>
  <div>Seven</div>
  <div>Eight</div>
  <div>Nine</div>
  <div>Ten</div>
</div>
```

We also include controls to enable changing features of the flex container, including:

- Toggling `flex-wrap` between the `wrap` and `wrap-reverse` values.
- Toggling the `balance` keyword on and off.
- Changing the `flex-line-count` value.

> We've hidden the HTML and JavaScript code for these features for brevity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've hidden the HTML and JavaScript for brevity.
```

#### CSS

> We apply `display: flex` to the `.box` to turn it into a flex container, then set some `flex-wrap` and `flex-line-count` values to make the flex children wrap evenly over a minimum of three flex lines. We'll change these later via JavaScript when the form controls are manipulated. We also set a {{cssxref("flex")}} value of `1 1 150px` on the flex children so they will take a base width of `150px` and then share out the remaining space on each flex line equally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We apply `display: flex` to the `.box` to turn it into a flex container, then set some `flex-wrap` and `flex-line-count` values to make the flex children wrap evenly over a minimum of three flex lines. You will be able to change the values in the live demo. We also set a {{cssxref("flex")}} value of `1 1 150px` on the flex children so they will take a base width of `150px` and with any remaining space distributed evenly between items within the same flex line.
```

```css live-sample___the-balance-keyword
.box {
  display: flex;

>   flex-wrap: wrap;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  flex-wrap: wrap balance;
```
we want to show how to use the property. it is also more impactful to see it even then uneven then the other way around

Author: updated

let wrapValue = "wrap";
let lineCountValue = "3";

function updateCurrentlySet() {
  pCodeElem.textContent = `flex-wrap: ${wrapValue}; flex-line-count: ${lineCountValue};`;
}

function setFlexWrap() {
  wrapValue = "";
  if (reverseInput.checked) {
    wrapValue += "wrap-reverse";
  } else {
    wrapValue += "wrap";
  }

  if (balanceInput.checked) {
    wrapValue += " balance";
  }

  boxElem.style.flexWrap = wrapValue;
  updateCurrentlySet();
}

function setFlexLineCount() {
  lineCountValue = lineCountInput.value;
  boxElem.style.flexLineCount = lineCountValue;
  outputElem.textContent = lineCountValue;
  updateCurrentlySet();
}

reverseInput.addEventListener("change", setFlexWrap);
balanceInput.addEventListener("change", setFlexWrap);
lineCountInput.addEventListener("input", setFlexLineCount);
```

#### Results

{{ EmbedLiveSample("the-balance-keyword", "100%", "400") }}

Change the form control settings to see how they affect the output. Note how:

- Toggling between `wrap` and `wrap-reverse` changes the direction in which the flex lines are laid out along the cross-axis.
- Setting `balance` causes the flex items to be evenly distributed across the available flex lines.

> - Changing the `flex-line-count` value changes the minimum number of lines the items will be distributed across. The `flex-line-count` property, and therefore the slider, has no effect unless `balance` is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changing the `flex-line-count` value changes the minimum number of lines the items will be distributed across. The `flex-line-count` property, and therefore the slider, has no effect unless `balance` is checked, and has no visible effect when the value is `4` or less.
```

Reviewer: NVM. it's in the next line
